# Relationshsips between tables

###Example: There are two tables, Car and Owner.

The Owner can have multiple cars,
The car can have only one owner

## _ONE-TO-MANY relationship_

The __one-to-many__ relationship can be added by using the __@ManyToOne__ and __@OneToMany__ annotations. 

1. The Car entity, which contains a foreign key, defines the relationship with __@ManyToOne__
* Add the getter and setter for the owner field. _Use the FetchType.LAZY_, __FetchType__ defines the strategy for fetching data from DB. __LAZY__ means that when the owner is fetched from the DB, all the cars associated with the owner will be fetched when __needed__. __EAGER__ means that the car will be fetched __immediately__ with the owner.

Add the Owner to the constructor.

In code this relationship would be represented as:

```java
@ManyToOne(fetch = FetchType.LAZY)
@JoinColumn(name = "owner")
private Owner owner;
```

2. In the Owner entity, the relationsip is defined with __@OneToMany__ annotation. The type of the field is __List<Car>__

```java
@OneToMany(cascade = CascadeType.ALL, mappedBy = "owner")
private List<Car> cars;
```

The cascade attribute defines how cascading affects the entities. The ALL attribute setting means that, if the owner is deleted, the cars linked to that owner are deleted as well. The mappedBy="owner" attribute setting tells us that the Car class has the owner field, which is the foreign key for this relationship.


## _Many-to-Many_ relationship

An Owner can have multilple cars, a Car can have multple Owners, for this relationship use __@ManyToMany__ annotation.

1. Define the Car entity in the following way, and add getter and setter for the new field:

```java
@ManyToMany(mappedBy = "cars") 
private Set<Owner> owners;
```

2. In the owner entity, the definition is as follows, add getter and setter as well:

```java
@ManyToMany(cascade = CascadeType.MERGE)
@JoinTable(name = "car_owner", joinColumns = { @JoinColumn(name =
       "ownerid") }, inverseJoinColumns = { @JoinColumn(name = "id") }) 
private Set<Car> cars = new HashSet<Car>(0);
```
* Run the application, there will be a new join table that is created between the car and owner tables. The join table is defined by using the @JoinTable annotation. With this annotation, we can set the name of the join table and join columns.










